
 2008 

 October 24, 2008 

In attendance: Robbie, Jonathan, Jan, Efraim, Sarah, Brian, Karen Higgins (visitor)

Karen Higgins

Wants to make multimedia piece on BC.  May do interviews, will be hanging around.  Will also be doing a piece for UC Davis homepage on biking and could include BC.

Acolyte Card

Robbie made a draft card.   We will make them durable and keep them in a drawer at the church.  All ministers will get one to test them out and make sure we’re all “trained.”  J

Bike Visioning Meeting

Idea sharing for future of bike culture in Davis took place last Saturday.  UCD seems ok with status quo of bike infrastructure.  Problem for those who want to see culture grow is lack of time.  Jan will be meeting Tara Goddard in two weeks to discuss future possibilities.  She likes our mission and wants to help us grow and get legit.  Ideas: help source materials (i.e. bikes from Davis Police), citysubsidized rent at a new facility,

Chris Doherty & Owen Howlett from Sac Bike Ktichen offered to help with establishing nonprofit status and generally providing expertise.

Student Housing Relationship

No feedback from Student Housing except that we should expect a reply soon.

Fundraiser

  DJ; We would like to consider paying them.  Robbie’s confirming DJ.
  Robbie McMurray  primary contact day of event
  Jan  secondary contact day of event
  Jan on Bike raffle: road bike and “pumpkin cruiser” getting put together
  We’re moving forward on New Belgium sponsorship
  Potential sponsors: Coop (Sarah), Ciocolat (Sarah), Bakery @ Farmer’s Market (Jake) Other?
  Secured sponsors: Pachamama Coffee, DOV
  Shirts: Cat, Darach & Janaki making more.
  We have tons of stickers, buttons left.

Tool Order

  On google.doc.
  Proposed to up amount to $2,000 to get tools (replacement and new) and parts (spokes, tubes, housing, etc.)
  When something’s lost/broken, put it on the board.
  Tool order will be made 11/10
  Note on special tools: Tools that are pricey, require special knowledge, etc. should be kept in minister drawer.  If person wants to use them, make sure they know how to use it and that they give it back to you.

Work Party

Finish Dome Cover Party day after fundraiser.  Breakfast and work!  (Nov 9th)

 October 17, 2008




In attendance: Deacon TY, Matt Seitzler, Efrem, Fernando, Jan, Chris Salam, Cat, Robby, Janaki, Jared,Ida, Nedav,Carl



Bikes are for Bitches this Sunday 3pm6pm!!



Letter to Housing

 Chuck Hunecke was takin pictures at BC on Oct 15 after canceling Oct 1st walk through.
 Point of letter is to reestablish communication
 Sounds very good so far
 Make any edits on line
 Ty Will send to Housing by Monday

Table at DMA (Davis Media Access) 4:009:00pm tomorrow

 Anniversary celebration (KDRT and DCTV)
 Bring literature, (front page of wiki) tools, tshirts, buttons, propaganda, MMU
 Robby, Cat to go
 Ty will fwd email

Davis Bike Visioning, Meeting at Village Bakery at 4:00pm

 Matt, Jonathan, Chris Salam, and Jan?

Tools

 List kept on dry erase board

 Robby went through park tools catalog and developed list

 Could allow minister part order, contact Robby

 Robby can get QBP connection through Sunshine Bicycles in Fairfax through roommate

 Current funds are at about $5,000

 Do we want master mechanic tool sets? 4k... No.

 Will finalize order at next meeting (October 24th Next Friday at the Domes Yurt 6:00pm)

 Robby Will get #10s and part to repair chain tool this week

 $750 upper limit

 Will include tubes, housing, cables, levers, ferrules, bearings, triflow, etc. as well as tools

 Robby will send preliminary list this week

Physical Space

Fence

 Fence between BC and Domes can happen immediately with manpower

 Need BC work party … WHEN?...

Dome Cover

 Ida, Efrem, Cat, Robby, Jan, Jared(?) … will work 102pm at BC

 Bring respirators if you have ‘em

Scrap Bin

 Once communication w/ housing is open Ty will talk w/ R4 or others to arrange metal recycling bin

Oily Waste

 Funding approved for Oily Waste can, Ty will get a can

 What to do with oily rags when can fills? We don’t know yet.

Doors for Dome

 Matt is working on design, will be upcoming workparty project

Fundraiser

 At DOV Nov 8, setup at 7pm, 8pm 12

 Flyers, Cat will make ‘em!

 Can use DOV sound system if we use their DJ

 20% of door goes to Lee

 Wristbands for folks over 21 (supplied)

 New Belgium is willing to sponsor and donate, but we need a tax ID

 Robby will talk with DJs (Ben and Nix)

 Matt will look to BC SC re: tax ID

 Sara was talking with BK Sac, but it sounds like a no go

 Tshirts, Siobhan has screens (at Craft Center)

 Janaki, Darach, Cat, Chris will make shirts

 Cat will make buttons

 Janaki made rubber stamp

SPAC

 We are official, mailbox number xyz?

New Ministers

 New minister boomshakalakagaia ministerization party Saturday (tomorrow) after Church is closed, at Dark,

 Janaki, Armon, Efrem, Jonathan, Chris, Fernando, Tom, and Sarah (when she wants to)

 Who will update the website?

Minister Training Cards

 They have to shadow 3 shifts

 They have to know certain things about philosophy, and about bikes

 They have come to meetings, and other things?

 Robby will create cards

Bathroom Policy

 Use Dome 4 and Dome 14? Use ARC? Borrow a bikebrary bike.

 We need to address this issue in the future

Police (or TAPS)

 Should we reach out to the Police?

 Some value in working with them to make sure we have no stolen bikes

 Jonathan and Jan will contact TAPS and UCDPD

Neonate on KDVS 12:003:00am Saturday night (Sunday)

 Darach will be on air to talk about bike punkery, choppers, etc

 If anyone is interested contact Darach

Handbook

 Edit it online!

 Several changes made by hand during meetings… Jan will update online

 http://docs.google.com/Doc?iddf9cm9fv_20g3c47ngp

 Handbook will be completed and printed by Fundraiser… who?

 October 3, 2008
In attendance: Ty, Janaki, Efrem, Cat, Jan, Matt, Robbie, Sarah, Jonathan.
Faciliator: Jonathan; notes: Sarah.

We are a SPAC.  Yay!  Thanks Cat, Darach.

Fundraiser plans & responsibilities
      •	Nov 8 at Delta of Venus
      •	Making flier & distribution: Cat & Janaki
      •	DJ/Music: Robbie
      •	DOV contact: Sarah
      •	Bikes for raffle: Jan, Matt
      •	Other raffle stuff: Sarah
      •	Stamp: Janaki
      •	Tshirts: Ty (though he might need someone else since Siobhan can’t do this anymore)

Volunteering
      •	Active ministers should volunteer consistently two times per month
      •	When you are running a shift, do NOT plan on working on your own projects
      •	More specifics are being worked out on the handbook online.

New Minister Training
      •	Should be both pedagogical/indoctrination (how to work on bikes, BC philosophy, consensus) and technical (how to actually fix bikes)
      •	Let’s work on creating opportunities/structure for both
      •	Armon will do a practice wheel building class with acolytes and ministers
      •	Those acolytes who have been around, but are not full ministers should be “fast tracked” to be full ministers (aka Sonic the Hedgehog shortcut).

Upcoming events
      •	KDRT event:  Oct 18th 49 p.m. at 1623 Fifth Street (behind DCTV studios) Celebration of 20 years of DCTV and KDRT’s 4 year birthday.  Free concert!  We will be tabling.  Contact Ty to help out.
      •	Celebrate UC Davis!  Oct 12.  BIG event.  Watch email or contact Jonathan to help.
      •	Bike Auction: Oct 11th.  Consider having a BC presence there to let people buying potentially broken bikes that we can help teach them how to fix them.

Permanent Dome Covering
      •	Robbie ordered dome covering stuff.
      •	Possible work party to get it up in 2 weeks

Handbook finalization
      •	We will meet on Friday, Oct. 10th to look over the handbook, particularly in regard to volunteering and minister training.

 September 19, 2008 
Attendees: Fernando, Efrem, Armon, Darach, Jan, Matt S., Ty, Thomas, Chris S., Robbie, Chris C.

Facilitator: Jan
Note Taker: Matt S.

Agenda Items:
1.	Physical Space Items
       a.	Dome Cover
       b.	Waste Stream
       c.	Inspection
       d.	Workparty Items
2.	SPAC
3.	Waiver
4.	BC Security
5.	New Minister Protocol
6.	Minister Enrichment
7.	Media
8.	GAP Revisit
9.	Bike Conference


1.	Physical Space Items
       a.	Dome Cover and Fire Items
               •	Ty and Robbie working on it, Robbie has material estimates and cover deign prototype.
               •	Fire retardant paint sought for inside of dome.
               •	Jan to get fire extinguishers for sight.
       b.	Waste Stream
               •	Move Compressors from site (to domes materials yard for later salvation)
               •	System needs to be in place.
               •	Chris S. to get quote on new recycling bin.
               •	Efrem to look into more tire recycling
       c.	Inspection
               •	Handbook needed for inspection
       d.	Workparty
               •	Make (obtain) No smoking sign for dome
               •	Mount fire extinguishers
               •	Move Compressors
               •	Move flammables cabinet out of dome
               •	Shim dome floor correctly
               •	Take apart long wheel rack
               •	Continue wheels for the dome
               •	Shed tool inventory
               •	Label waste buckets
2.0 SPAC
       •	Working on membership
       •	Help needed on describing membership requirements
       •	Bike Church SPAC representatives will be all undergraduate to aid in getting funds for the our organization

3.0 Waiver
       •	Robbie working on waiver…

4.0	BC Security
       •	Proposal to change combo every quarter made and passed
       •	Tighten up shift tool cleanup and inventory processes

5.0	New Minister Protocol
       •	Be an Acolyte then can become a minister
       •	Active ministers take two shifts per month (1 shift  3 hours) and go to two meeting a quarter.
       •	New ministers made at meeting to shadow existing ministers due to needed experience not available during renovation.
       •	See ministers responsibilities in handbook

6.0	Minister Enrichment
       •	Wheel building class Robbie could teach later

7.0	Media
       •	Good Day Sacramento to be scheduled in the future…

8.0	Group Action Plan revisit
       •	Label waste buckets (still needed)
       •	Metal recycling needed (still needed)
       •	Nonprofit status (still needed)
       •	New PSA (Darach to work on it, ask if you can help)
       •	Fundraiser at DOV (Chris C. to talk with Lee about particulars of the deal)
       •	Project Pile needs to be purged(organize trailers)

9.0	Bike Conference at Bike Museum
       •	Darach to go ask him if you want to join him

10.0	 BC Supplies
       •	Tools and tubes need to be ordered

 September 5, 2008 

In attendance: Jan, Darach, Matt S., Sarah, Robbie, Ty & Efrem

Walk through:

Who was there: James Patterson (fire dept), Susan Cummings (EH&S), Chuck Huneke (student housing), Jonathan, Ty & Sarah

Issues with fire: made out of wood, temporary vs. permanent structure,

We need to wait until we hear what Wes has to say about the potential fire safety.

Other dome issues: need to fix shims.

Fire says they didn’t know we were using wood, but we have documentation that we tried to get in touch with them.

Potential future hurdle: risk management

Proposal: Make a onepage summary of the BC for university administration.  Approved.

For BC waiver: tweak what we have and Craft Center

For handbook: ask Susan Cummings for input as we go.

Previous to future meetings: send out reminder

Work party plans (Saturday 102):

Clean up, pick up pieces, move frames from behind domes, get fire extinguishers, move flammables to cabinet, tighten up perimeter (donation space, etc.), organizing parts, start big signage

Rotate work party responsibilities.  Matt in charge this week, Efrem in charge next week.

SPAC update:

Open 93 p.m. on 4th floor of MU.  Dropin hours around lunch.

Davis Bike Church

Matt will send out a time to go.

Waiver review:

Matt made waiver, will modify by comparing with Craft Center, then Mike lawyer will review.  Then we will send it to Susan Cummings for advice.

GAP review (handbook):

Worked on handbook organization.

Review existing plan at next meeting, Sept. 19th.

Robbie will look at it ahead of time, and send it out.

Fundraising update (SHCA)

SHCA: Matt contacted Max and will have check written to Bike Church c/o .

Fundraiser date: Nov. 8 @ DOV

Will ask New Belgium for sponsorship if ok with Lee

Publicity (Aggie, KDVationS)

Contact Aggie reporter about BC article

KDVS: Julia (production person) will work with Darach to make new PSA tomorrow.  (Squeaky tire, leaky air to zoom; a capella voices…)  Darach will send out when he will do it on list.

Article for BC for KDVationS due Sept 10th.  Darach needs help. 500800 words.

Volunteering Plan

Bike fair Sept 14th 35 p.m. at Cesar Chavez. Need mechanics.  Ty will do.  Others should go too.

Bike rodeos at elementary schools.  Help of all sorts needed. Sept. 10 (Montgomery), Sept. 17 (Korimatsu), Sept. 24 (North Davis), Oct 1 (Willett).  1:30 p.m. for all.


 Aug 15, 2008 


Davis Bike Church Meeting Notes

Attendees: Darach Miller, Robert McMurry, Matt Seitzler, Ty Nowotny(facilitator), Tara Goddard, and Jennifer Wolf(notes)

Agenda:

A) Work Party
B) Dome Cover
C) Handbook
D) Site Clearing
E) PSA
F) Dance Party
G) SPAC
H) Tara Goddard

A) Work Party

Sat Aug 16th 9~12ish
Cabinets have arrived

Ideas:
Move cabinets using matt’s handout as guideline
Sort parts into cabinets
Move bikes and rack near entrance
priming inside of knee wall
Prime stairs and ramp
Some cans of paint at the site
Possibility, look into getting free paint from landfill
Could paint ring where cabinets go

Tasks:
Prime and Paint knee wall and floor
Organize and readjust frame storage area
General organization
Level ground around entry (may want to soak ground)
Separate card catalog to make two small part storage cabinets.
Arrange cabinets.

B) Dome cover

Paper model made by Friar Robbie with summer and winter options of pavilion shade and waterproof tent respectively
Lower part of cover to be used to expand shade area still in idea and planning stage.
Can sew cover using industrial machine at craft center (Ryan has offered to help with this). Possibly could glue instead (maybe both).
Material needs to have preferable mildew fireproof characteristics
Possibly get material from Hayward
Possibly material from used billboard (PVC?)

C) Handbook

Maybe we should have weekly meetings at Delta where people talk and type sections of handbook.
Use Santa Cruz Bike Church handbook as a template
Congleton back Sept. 15 matt can help after Sept. 3
Meet Wednesday Aug. 28 at 611 lessley place to get initial working document 5pm~7pm

D) Site Clearing …Part of work party see section A

E) Psa

Could be announced during Trotski’s show or any one else who wants to air it
Should record before school starts
Existing recording is not up to date and contains incorrect info

To be included in new message:
Save Bike Church
Check wiki for current hours work parties and events
Get involved and become a volunteer and or minister
Make a good one after the bike church has been “save” with higher production value music etc.

F) Dance Party Fund Raiser??

Dates:
Oct4: bad because of Hoes Down(Capay), Hardly Strictly Bluegrass(SF), Oct1st deadline demands attention (i.e. not enough time to promote)
Nov1: near Halloween (possible domes party conflict)
Nov8: no obvious reasons not too Star Star save the date

G) SPAC

Info:
EH&S/Housing requires this to meet
SPAC(Student Programs & Activities Center)
Enables fundraising and financing solutions
“pres”/pope/guru must take online quiz
$35 fee for storage space come as you go
might have to put education “spin” on bike church (which really is not a spin but reality)
might be able to use a tax ID number for donations (ie tax deductible donations)
Darach suggest looking into eligibility of grad students
Have to have ¾ UCD students
Liability – we are liable for any money injury etc. – need a wavier or look into getting liability insurance
Purpose needs to be clear and consistent with UCD
Statement of purpose could come from handbook
Timeline: ASAP then reregister each year
Five officers are responsible for all debts and liability obligations

H) Tara Goddard (Bicycle/pedestrian coordinator for city of Davis)

Contact info: tgoddard@cityofdavis.org
5307575669(office)
5309791621(work cell)

Background and current job duties:
Civil engineering graduate student – travel behavior
Worked with susan handy – walking bikeing .. children & obesity
Replaced Tim Bustos
Goal to get more people walking and biking
Deals with infrastructure problems, education programs, and enforcement issues etc.
Riding to school safety is major concern in davis

Ideas about future collaboration:
   1.      Help with calls from other communities, education and resource material
   2.      Pamplet and website
   3.      Public works .. new city plan
   4.      Sept8th international walk to school day
   5.      Oct 12 celebrate davis
         a.            shutting down 3rd from campus to Gst for Pedestrians only
         b.            need bike valet service??
         c.            University centennial
         d.            Vendors lining street
   6.      Cal Bike museum
   7.      Working on a display
   8.      Induction ceremony
   9.      Bike Rodeo(May)
         a.            Course set up for kids to learn to deal with common bike situations safely
         b.            Trivia
  10.      Cyclebration – revive davis citywide celebration
  11.      Parking day – take over parking spots for a day to do whatever (garden, art gallery, croquet etc.)
  12.      Join the Davis Bike Club List serve – lots of bike related discussion keeps your ears to the rail

I) Other topics

Housing visit walk through … Tentatively scheduled for early September, Would be nice to have a couple more work parties … parts in the dome etc.

Also wold be nice to follow up on Aggie article and How the best is done program.



 July 25, 2008 

Attendance: Jan, Jason, Matt, Darach

Agenda: Coop fair, kens tires, ordering stuff, shifts, GPF, dome/shed floor, weed control, fence, money, fundraise

Coop fair

124 on saturday, meet at church at 11am
robbie, jason, jan, and darach will be there
church is closed during this time
Matt S. can borrow the blue tent during burning man

Kens tires/tubes
Check in kens dumpsters for good tubes and tires
kens couldnt handle the amount of tires we brought them to recycle
darach will talk to ken
matt can talk to them about taking more tires

Ordering stuff
darach: we need to order
aaron at apex cycles needs help moving on the 29th. could be an opportunity to get a wholesale order
luke at sunshine, sf bike kitchen, and santa cruz are potentail folks for an order
lets try a small order with aaron
and check in with luke
we can agree to send folks to aarons shop

shifts
 everyone is supposed to do one shift a month
 we dont have enough people now
 the church will be closed on saturdays!
 we need a psa for recruiting ministers in the fall
 minister training is need in the fall
 the bike church is not open on saturdays in the summer, and only maybe on wednesdays if someone wants to run a shift

Save the Bike Church
We are going to start using save the church to get more folks out at work parties
 write an email : come to work, help us, explain why it is threatened
 matt will write the email and let us review

Floor
 start construction this week
 move dome to the corner and have a 10 ft clearance with border
 work party on sunday to start clearing
 lets put a hold on the shed floor, it isnt critical

Cover
 look into materials:jason and matt
 the pre fabbed cover is too expensive $6000
 jan will look for an industrial sewing machine

weed control
cardboard, wood chips, black paper stuff, plastic
 we will use sheet mulching for temporary weed prevention
 jason will be a roll of black paper stuff for sunday

Fence
no sharp stuff
 it has to be secured to the ground with no chance of falling
 check price of the 4ft high fence
 do north fence last

money
we havent received scha money, or money from the two $1000 donors
we need to check on these things, jason will do that

fundraiser
Lee wants the church back for another fundraiser party
we need to have it in the fall when school starts

handbook
has been updated, but still needs work

 June 27, 2008 
June 27th, 2008 meeting for Bike Church Great Pedal forward

Attendees:  Jan, Matt, Robbie,  others forget who add yourself if you were there

Agenda

1)money flow WTF?  (15min)
2)Opening (10min)
3)Action plan progress (postponed due to low attendance and time)
4)Peter Warwick(15min)
5)Work Party (10 min)
6)shed organization (10min)

Notes:

Money Flow WTF?:
1.Robbie looks into opening account
2.drop box and key hidden ask a minister who knows if you need to know
3.need to obtain 1 or two wallets to be used during open hours .. to be carried by minister on duty keep making collection notes in ledger(all other money remains locked)
4.end of shift put cash and wallets in lock box
5.Get drop box working and when available make drop in box, leaving $35 for change(10 $1s, 3 $5s, and 1 $10)

Opening and Closing:
1.be accountable
2.use the Wiki (or is this an obsolete method)
3.closed on sat (work parties instead) until Oct 1st or end of GPF
4.open when you arrive on wed (cat should not feel obligated)
5.if you need to leave at the end of your shift close the church.

GAP progress postponed

Peter Warwick
1.he doesnt hate us justs wants communication an what is being built.

Work party:
1.flag out boundary and possible mock up
2.moving organization and prep work
3.new shed filing cabinet organize and possibly add shelves see matts plan
4.major organizational or process changes need to be emailed to the ministry list
5.Signage needed desperately!!!!
6.Handbook needed desperately!!!!


 May 16, 2008 
Facilitator: ReV Jason
Note taker: jason? others...
Attendance: Matt, Matt, Robbie, Jan, pxl, Cat, Darach, Ty, Janaki

Agenda:
1. Fundraiser
2. Treasurer
3. EH&S and work party
4. Site marking
5. Reimbursements

Fundraiser
Sell stuff: buttons $1, thrift Ts $10, recycled Ts $15, hoodies $20, patch kits $2, stickers $.25
raffle at 11 pm, bike dance at 10:30
bike dance prize: metal human sculpture
raffle prizes: 1. fixie bike 2. roadster bike 3. bike trainer 4. art by pxl 5. art by ryan 614 goody bags
set up schedule for manning the door and merch tables
matt and jason announce raffle winners

EH&S
meeting with eh&s on monday at 3 pm  please come if you can

Work party
wheel and tire wall will be built saturday from 2 to 6, need help and materials

Solar stuff
We got a lot of the solar equipment donated!! cheers, more money for the lean tos!!

Site marking
Ty will mark the site with flags and paint and fencing. he needs $20 or so for paint and flags possibly. approved.

Treasury
Rabbie Matt is leaving us for a grand bicycle trip across the country so we need a new treasurer. Robbie volunteered to treasure. We all approved.

Reimbursements
We spent about 1500 dollars on stuff for the fundraiser. Bring receipts to Matt to get your money back.

May 2, 2008

Facilitator: 	Janaki
Note Taker:	Matthew Sattva
Attendees:	Monk Fixit, Rev. Jason, Count Darach, Brother Jan, Eric Van Welder, Acolyte Emily, Matthew Sattva, and Pxl.

Agenda:
1.	Dance Party update
2.	Sustainability grant update
3.	ASUCD update
4.	GAP Past, present, and future
5.	EH&S Plan and presentation items
6.	Summer Time Closure
7.	Money box discussion
8.	Choice of bikes


DANCE PARTY
May 16th DOV Raffle for two bikes, Tshirts, stickers, and patchkits

SUSTAINABILTY GRANT
Due Wednesday May 7th. Asking for $ for structural and organizational improvements

SCHA DONATIONS
Pxl announced possible donation to Bike Church

ASUCD
Contact made can we be associated?
Positives:  501C3 in place, funding
Negatives: On the radar of UCD, extra expenses could occur (ex: EH&S fees)
Neutral: Work with housing on space, work with Bike Barn for coexistance

GAP PLANS
Brush clearing started need to have bikes moved to continue

ADD TO GPF, MAY Project area clean out Jan & Darach & (?)

Minister Training Volunteer focused meetings to be scheduled

Bike Blessing Thanks and praise for the success and exposure

Site Plan Preliminary plan shown and location of Bike Bone Yard and Main Dome approved! Location of other structures to be determined.

Volunteer Management Plan Volunteer specific meetings, use MMU for outreach

Burning Bike Festival After May (30th) critical mass bike dancing, bike burning, skits

Wheel and Tire Wall To be built at 17th work party (MS and Jan and ?)


EH&S PLAN
Approval to show site plan and GPF plan to show group intention approved.

SUMMER TIME CLOSURE
Approval granted for BIKE CHURCH CLOSURE ON SATURDAYS for GPF work partys. Bike Church will be open on Wednesdays.

MONEY BOX
Plan to define roles and protocol for money Jan, Sarah M., and Fixit

CHOICE OF BIKES
Proposal to accept near complete (needing only one simple repair) Magmas, Huffys, and Roadmaster type bikes approved. This will set a filter standard to help avoid collection of lower quality bikes.


April 18, 2008
Attendance: Jason, Robbie, Ty, Chris, Jan, Cat, Darach, Jonathan, Sarah

General announcements

Join the parade for Picnic Day

Unitarian Church doing “Bike to Church” Day.  Anyone that wants to join up, go for it.

Proposals

Unless otherwise noted, all actions below were approved.

Bike Kitchen Funding

     SAC Bike Kitchen has built up funds.  Interested in funding physical capital to get Bike Church started in West Sac.
     Need to come up with clear proposal that demonstrates plan for space and volunteer base
     Donation may or may not need to be paid back.



Handbook

     For ministers & acolytes & congregation
     Online and print (cool, artsy) 100 in print
     Work with signage group



  Intro Handout

     Donation, cleanup, storage, tool usage, how to get involved in trifold for congregation
     Online and print, 500 in print
     Work with signage, green book, handbook



Green Book

     Put out little tiny booklets one by one (want to change a tire, make a fixy, etc.)
     13 sheets
     ~50 copies
     $20 per printing
     end of May
     Put one out a month
     Ministry will contribute and comment to new books
     May add this as a weekly column to Aggie



Signout Book

     Sign in/out: Name, time in/out, email, repair done, cleaned up, donations, email list?, volunteering?
     Will do
     Drawing every 100th person gets a prize



Nonprofit Status

     Get books for information, mine people (Jake & Davis Bicycles), go to nonprofit research center
     Action plan ready for June
     Announce workshops at Nonprofit center to group
     Sarah, Jason, Robbie



Master Grant

     Make a grant with every part we would need for proposals/fundraising/plans, etc.
     Outline by end of May
     Need everyone’s help in filling in information from outline



Donation Signage

     Make recommended donation sign with low/high based on paper inside shed
     All sign people work together



Dance Party Fundraiser

     May 17th Dance Party at Delta of Venus 9p.m.
     Morgan and Jason
     Fliers up by May 10th



ASUCD Reserach

     Get $$ from undergrad fees, more official, gain respect, but might have downsides too.
     Find information by end of May



Minister Training

     Everyone come for minister trainings; make an event
     Create a minister training plan (3 hours at a time, contiguous w/ Bike Church plan)
     Work to build a bike, which will then be used for BikeBrary



Brush/Mulching

     Clear weeds (not bamboo).  Work on it in off hours over next 23 weeks.
     Discuss sheet mulching and other options with site plan for further discussion
     Janaki will do it, welcomes help.
     Weeding is redeeming
     It’s important to make sure Bike Church remains “hidden” (for now).  Further discussion on that later.



Carpet Work Areas

     Cut up bits of carpet for people to take and use for bike stations (less lots parts, definable space)
     Chris C. will do



20K

     $ from domes, consistent donations, grants
     Get capital to follow through on physical space ideas
     Connects to lots of different groups



Bike Frame Fundraiser

     Refurbish store brand bikes
     Liability issues, against mission to fix bikes and sell
     Valuable across the border
     This was left open, NOT approved



Waste Bin Labeling/Small Parts Recovery

     Bin for broken bike parts, cardboard, plastics, trash (disposal)
     Have bins for general small parts that people can sort as task on chore list
     Have them by shed and by domes for now
     Connect with signage



Totes for Tools

     Individual totes for people working to avoid missing/taken tools and organization
     Not approved, further discussion needed



Bike Classes

     Tomorrow 1 p.m. How to take apart bikes/basic bike workings @ Bike Church
     Looking toward putting together more classes down the road
     Do lots o’ publicity for these things
     Consider requiring ministers to do classes once a year
     Work w/ Free School, Chris in minister training



Volunter Plan

     Harness volunteer power.  Do this by means of a consolidated list of all volunteer tasks that need to be done, publicize need for volunteers.  Long term: develop a system for integrating and training volunteers
     Sarah will put list on Shed
     People can put tasks up or email to Sarah if they will not be by the Church soon.



Site Plan

     General plan
     Large scale model of some sort so the process of making plans can be interactive
     Matt S. Robbie, Matt McC.



Still need to discuss next time:

Outreach plan

General Signage

Handwash Station

Selfservice station

Tool Totes

Mobile Ministry Unit

Waste management
April 13, 2008
attendance: Matt MC (Facilitator), jason, sarah, matt s, jan, robbie, chris
 make proposals at next meeting (GAPS)
 committees>need head person?
 lead to take point to get the projects initially started
 schedule a meeting to come up with GAP
 social organizing vs. leading a project, there is a difference
 committee 1 person or 10+ people
 groups fractionalize man or join (not sure what this isJM)
 point of contact > gets group together to put together a GAP (group action plan)
 individual tasks or group them together
 responsibility of the point>social organizing, prodding communication, make sure proposals are thought of as important
 next meeting break into groups and develop GAPS
 go over GAPs month by month
 10 mins for meeting structure and work on GAPs
 big decisions, when should they get group approval>is it a justification issue? do you need input on the issue?
 ping the people about coming up with proposals
 action plan is important
 sub groups are good
 social organizers for each group
 point people for each group:
  fundranger  jason
  organization  sarah
  fun  robbie
  physical  matt s
  pr  cat
 Jason should remind the points to to the point person job
 Jason will tell sarah that she is the org. point
 Robbie will share the email and phone list
 april tasks!!
  sus. grant may 7  JKM (sattva)
  sign design (collab w/handbook)  chris
  bc video  chris
  Sustain. fair  chris
  Bike blessing april 26th  Matt, (chris), Cat, (jason advertising)
  picnic day, mmu  cat, george
  wef  robbie


April 4, 2008
Bike Church Meeting Notes
@ Davis Domes
Pastor Jason Presiding
Friday 4th April 2008


Our Mission Statement, What is it and what should it say?   It should encompass who, where, how, what and why.

Who: Volunteers    Where: Davis, California and the surrounding community    How: Through teaching
What:   Empowerment, resource conservation, and cultivating a community bike culture.   Why:  Freedom to have cheap transportation

Eric Vangelran said,  “We are empowering people to maintain their own bikes in order not to spend money in this capitalistic society.”
Matt McCorcle  thought we should be cultivating Community

Problems and Proposals:

Security, the Church perimeter is not defined.   Suggested solutions; a bike frame fence and enclosure of the dome workshop.   Matt S.

Another idea was to possibly lock the Church or to lock up projects with a long cable.   Someone else suggested having individuals lock their own projects so that all projects wouldn’t need to be unlocked each time an individual project needed attention   Rev. Jason mentioned that we needed a time sensitive labeling system/policy for projects, so that materials don’t languish when church members leave or lose interest.
There was also discussion of delegation of projects to smaller responsible groups for more expeditious resolution.   The idea was put forth that each micro group should have some autonomy as long as what they did was within church guideline and served the greater good.   Others felt that decisions should be reviewed by comity.

Rev. Ty felt we need a “Get it done” plan so that progress can be made.  And Sara M. added that we need rules for what type of decisions need to go before a comity.

Erik spoke about The Great Pedal Forward and Brainstorming and organization of ideas.

Jonaki suggested sheet mulching for weed control.   Cat shared some thoughts on rain covering for the materials and project areas and Brian suggested a designated R&D area.

Matt M. suggested a site plan by May.   Matt S. passed around a proposed site plan drawing.

BC meeting notes   4/4/08


Ty N. said we need solid floors for the structures.

Matt S. said he’d spoken with Peter Warwick, University Environmental Health & Safety Representative about EH&S matters concerning the Church area.

Solar power installation was discussed briefly and the development of a public relations plan.

Friar Robby thought we should have a Church Handbook by July

The idea of an introductory handouts and/or signage was talked about.

Sara thought an administrative plan and a running chore list would be helpful in better utilizing volunteer time.

There was also discussion of producing a bike repair pamphlet and a Davis Bike Church “Tract”,
something to hand to people here and at PR functions, etc.

Other ideas suggested and by whom were:

Plans for pouring and adobe type floor by January – Chris

A new radio spot for KDVS by July – Robby

This Monday @ 5 PM, The Bike Radio Show

We should explore outreach to other groups – Sara

Utube video – Chris

Dance Party   ?

Fund raising;  Get help from the Bike Kitchen by May.   They have money for assistance.

October Bike Coop meeting, San Francisco  “Bike, Bike”

Donation plan signage by June



BC meeting notes    4/4/08



Maybe something like the Bike Kitchen has, $30 annual membership / $30 to build one / $5 a day

Question was asked, Could we operate as a nonprofit on UC property?   Can a 501C3 organization charge membership fees?
What are the legalities for fund raising?

Organization of parts

Need for Church nonprofit Status – Robby

EH&S solutions – Matt D.

A goal of $20K by July possibly through grants and other fund raising methods

Sara said we need a master grand written

Bike to School – April 24th

Sustainable Transportation Fair, May 20th

We should have a Bike Blessing Ceremony on a Saturday or Sunday in conjunction with the one being held on the East Coast.  – Matt S.

The need for more fund raising

Minister training day once a quarter or repeating monthly. – Chris C.

This could turn into a fund raising and bike training class and also turn into a regular event. – Pxl

We need a volunteer labor usage plan and a more obvious process for newcomer involvement.  Sara

In conclusion, people were encouraged to come up to the board and add their name to the project or projects in which they wanted to participate.

Present were, Jason, Jake, Jonathan, Janaki, Cat, Chris C., Chris S., Darack, Erik,
Ty N., Ty S., Matt M., Matt S., Brian, Robby, Sara, Pxl, and Jan

March 17, 2008

Bike Notes Meeting 31708

Matt McC, Matt, Eric, Robbie, Ty, Chris, Jason, Jonathan, Janaki

Reports on Different Scenarios

Aggressive Face Lift

     Laundry list
     Clear brush
     Clear boundaries/fence (semipermanent, define space)
     Cover dome, done well
     Defined workstations, kept clean
     Clearly, cleanly organized parts
     Leveling site ground (decomposed granite, pavers, level ground)
     Formal, clear ability to close dome/lock up
     Clear signage
     Move structures to open space up
     Steps

          o Create site plan
          o Organization committees responsible for each part, empowered to make decisions.
          o Significant personcommitment to make this happen (LOTS of people giving LOTS of time)
          o This will get lots of people aggressively engaged and give momentum to get things done.
          o Benefits
          o Less bureaucracy issues
          o Using what we already have, recycled materials
          o No location change
          o Cons
          o Limits of location, funding (potential soln: Domes, other?)
          o Watch weather issues?



Downtown/nonprofit

     Physical space pros
     Controlled access
     Weatherproof/security
     Bathrooms/electricity/water
     Easy organization from clean start
     No university policy issues
     Cheaper startup than new building
     More volunteers at new environment
     Physical space cons
     Rent/utilities/liability
     No Church at Domes
     Fundraising regularly needed
     More corporate structure
     More volunteers/possibly paid employees
     Need bank account/nonprofit status needed
     Space
     Food coop
     5th/4th train track area
     Olive Drive industrial area
     L St Furniture building (1200/900’ space $1/foot)
     Nonprofit status
     Bylaw/charter/board of directors/lots o’ forms
     $500 fees
     Tax ID

          o Pros: Tax deductible donations, bank account, liability on corporate entity, accounts from wholesalers, former pricing scheme (based on income), connect w/ other nonprofits, opens up to broader group, more central location
          o Cons: Cost, do taxes/track money, paperwork, handbooks/protocol, accountability, pay people, DWR/Yolo for waste, Downtown Davis Association issues
          o Against two locations: split resources/people



Replicating Yurt/Dome Improvements

     Yurt
     $25k in materials/permitting, $15k in labor
     Costs $40k to build (approx)
     Dome Improvements
     Weld bike wheels into domes for security/welded door made out of bikes
     Canvas cover that extends beyond dome
     Poured adobe floor/linseed cover
     $3k in materials, $2k in labor



Nonprofit

     More freedom if separate from university



Anarchy!

     Keep university/structures at bay, stuff $ under the mattress



Bank account

     Need meeting notes, list of officers, tax id # (reason  open bank account), two officers
     Can write checks to Bike Church now under account in Chris’s name at University student & employee credit union



Reproduction models

     Immaculate conception: make a new downtown/community location and keep current location too.
     Rhizome: Increase visibility of mobile Bike Church
     Sexual reproduction: Partner with existing organization



3 scenarios for discussion

     Uproot and move, pay rent in town
     Community organization to be driving force behind another Bike Church, but keep existent Bike Church
     Build up existing Bike Church



Proposal:  Stay in existing location and put all our efforts toward making the site great and functional.  Then, look into reaching out to other community organizations.  Yay!

Proposal: Chris will head up making signs and changing space over break.  Yippie!

Proposal: Matt will head up finishing perimeter fence over break.  Whoo hoo!

Proposal: Meet Friday, April 4th (first week of quarter) at Bike Church, meet at 6, party at 9.  Jason will facilitate; everyone is to bring ideas categorized in short (end of spring quarter), medium (end of summer), long term (after that), and say how they address problems.  Yes!

March 10, 2008

Bike Church Meeting Notes 31008

Proposal: put a new wiki page on the bike church website to edit the mission statement (eric will do it)

Ideas to solve the list of problems:

Guiding comments

Clean. Manicured...

the physical quality of the space, the structures, the flatness of the ground, the waterproofness of our structures, will translate directly into how people will treat our space and how they behave there.

What population are we serving? A woman from the womens shelter wanted to learn more about the church – should we reach out to other communitybased groups?

How much does the location affect who we reach?

The tipping point – NYC – terrible crime in the subway for decades, tried all kinds of enforcement efforts, and everything failed, and then finally, they went on an aggressive campaign to get rid of graffitti to repaint the cars everyday, for a year, and doing it everyday changed the culture.

social organization

a minister manual

congregation signin sheet – name, date, time in, time out, cleaned up?, donated?, comments/your email?

Nonprofit – many of these problems require money – keeping it under your mattress isnt the way to do it, whether were under a nonprofit or start one ourselves, we can get those ways to handle the funding stuff.

Comparison of staying on campus and working with the Uni vs moving to a different location and working with other communitybased groups

Minister mentorship – follow someone along a shift

dedicate ourselves to a really aggressive campaign to keep the place clean and organized in the nearterm in order to change the culture.

Give everyone a training to get acquainted with the shop when they first come

We need a big entry sign that tells people what to do, and signs on parts and trash, recycling, etc.

sustainable signs

selfservice station back up

a trifold pamphlet with a map

Real structure, bathroom, bike racks (hanging?), handbook.

Physical space

Clear out the shrubbery (acacia and grassy bamboo), do some nice landscaping between the church and the street


A really welldefined space – a space for stuff, a space for working, a space for keeping empty

decomposed granite as opposed to concrete

making our infrastructure more permanent

poured adobe floor during the summer

having storage containers that clearly contain and label things

have separate piles for bikes that can be built into a whole bike vs parts bikes

fundamental standards to decide whether its work keeping to build or is just for parts

a visitors guide: a typical visit at the bike church, basic protocols, who to contact, etc.

as bikes come in, strip them down to base components

see a need for much more indoor space

a regular day of the week to clean up the church?

A permanent solution to the storage problem 

materials flows – input/output

theres a lot of extra stuff there all the time

how many people do we want to serve?

Specialized gives out tire recycling bins

>>>>>

who are we serving?

Are we moving on from the bike church, or...

we need to prioritize and have a couple of different groups

if we stay at the domes, what do we expect to see by the fall?

If we dont stay, we need to come up with something else?

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

Next week on Monday 8pm at N st., meet at the butterpat

add janaki @ cox.net to the listserv

lets see more clear cut ideas for other places to move the bike church

facilities we can envision at the location were at now

March 8, 2008

Attendees: Sarah M., Pxl, Robbi M., Chris C., Johnathan W. (Facilitator),
Darach, Eric Van Scooter, Jason M., Matt S., and the Holy Spirit...


1. Bike Church Visualization
Roundtable discussion occurred regarding what each person envisioned the
Bike Church to be.  These main points were that the Bike Church be a place
where:

People can help each other, share skills, and empower each other in fixing
and repairing their own bicycles.
Resource use and reuse emphasized and practiced.
Tools are shared and learned to use correctly.
Bicycle repair is taught not done as a service.
Sustainable bicycle/human powered culture is cultivated.
Waste is given another chance at reuse.
Getting as many people riding their bikes is paramount.
The idea where the disconnection from knowledge is smashed.
A place where one can shout Boom Shakalaka Gaia.
A place where community can be built through the communication of
knowledge and the practice of sustainable/recycled transportation.

Tentative Bike Church Mission Ideas:
The Bike Church is a place where teaching, service to others, the use of
shared tools, the empowerment through doing things yourself, and the use of
recycled materials occurs through a community focused on sustainable
transportation.

2. Obstacles/Problems of the Bike Church
Bike Church physical space is not controlled (open 24hrs).
No plan of action in place to bring in new Ministers.
No secure places to store all the parts at the site.
System in place to meet the E,H,&S needs.
Organizational plan and signage needed.
Lack of committed people.
Feng Shui of Church is bundled.
No clear place for projects.
No good waste stream protocol.
Physical foundation needed.
Legal, money handling process needed.
No bathroom or water facilities.


3. Next Meeting
Clarification of Broad Ideas to meet mission goals.
Bring ideas on how to solve the above problems.

NEXT MEETING 8/10/08 8:00pm Pierce Coop

2007
October 5, 2007

Attendance: Eric, Jason, Chris, Simion, Ted, Siobhan, pxl, Robbie, Ty, Joseph, Tom

Shifts!
  We have about 16 active members capable of running shifts
  16 ministers  One shift per month, open two days per week: Wednesday and Saturday
  To be considered an active minister you must be responsible for one shift per month
  Active members get a free tshirt and are allowed to get in on wholesale orders and you get to keep all your teeth
  New hours::: Wednesday and Saturday 126!  Shift one 123...Shift two 36
  Everyone agreed to sign up for a shift

Workshops
  Twice a week is too many: Lets do twice a month instead
  Workshops help generate more ministers
  What time should it be?? > didnt decide...talked about Fridays

Dome covering
  tarps will only last one season but they are available
  treated canvas may be a permanent solution: purchase and sew!
  we have about $600 left in the coffers
  we need to have a dome covering work party before it rains > Eric and Matt will lead it
  there are plans to solar power the bike church by spring
  having a tarp between the shed and the dome would be nice for the winter weather
  Siobhan has tarps from burning man that can be donated

Intern
  could get a free intern
  anonymous offer to pay interns salary for a month
  most of the interns tasks should be done by the ministers
  if ministers take on the responsibilities, we dont need an intern or paid position
  ministers agreed to take on small responsibilities
  no committees...individuals with responsibilities but can enlist help

Handbook
  No touching policy, some folks have had uncomfortable experiences
  dont touch people you dont know
  we need better communication
  jolly roger!!
  work trade: need rules for work trade system in handbook and signage

Work party ideas
  build a wheel, drink a beer
  bikebrary tune up
  bike stripping: acolytes can learn from stripping
  we need to purge bikes once a quarter > send them to the recycler
  regularly scheduled work party once a month: last Saturday from 102pm
  we should join in with the domes Halloween party for or fall bash

Regular meetings
  when and where? not too often, but we need to have another soon to take care of initial stuff
  schedule next meeting at the meeting

Commitments
  Siobhan
   Send nice email with new shift instructions
  Matt and Eric
   they will host a dome covering work party soon
  Eric and pxl
   will design larger doors for the dome
  Jason and pxl
   handbook design
  Chris
   Put Matts name on the bank account


Jobs Table


Sign up for something that is empty and get a free suprise........!

June 19, 2007

Agenda (10 minutes each)
Treasury, Order, Nonprofit Status, Bank Account, Post Office, Trek Auction, Summer Hours, Motivation, Ordination

Present
Morgan, Ted, Cat, Tai, Jason, Justin, Ty, Eric, Matt, Chris, Josh, Ian, Christoff

Treasury
Tai:  Got $850 in coffers, but money floating around.
Jason: Heres $100.  Alec owed $25 from last order; did he pay?
Eric:  I owe $270.  Will pay when I get paid.
Ted:  I got $10.
Tai:  We owe Chris about $1000$1200.  I proposed by email earlier this week that for retroactive reimbursements they be seconded by a party not involved and it would go through if no one raised any objections at the next meeting.
Ted:  Youre taking the full risk upon yourself if you buy something hoping to be reimbursed.
Jason:  Should we have a limit on retroactive reimbursements?
Tai:  The only danger is that it puts the group in a funny place where they feel obliged to reimburse stuff that they otherwise wouldnt have wanted.
Eric:  I think it;s a  good idea in that it cuts through bureaucracy and it makes us flexible and allows us to work.
Tai:  Maybe a $100 cap.  Under that you just need a second, and the Treasurer will disburse.  Over and it needs to be talked about.

Outstanding reimbursements
Jason:  I need $40 for festival beer and $45 for a post office box 72651 to get a bank account .
Ted:  I need $249 for a toolbox.
Tai:  I propose that you bring the toolbox in.
Eric:  And you should bring in the receipts.
Ted:  I also need $140 for constructing the MMU.
Tai:  I just want to say thats the coolest addition to the Church since its inception and support its reimbursement.
Chris:  Lets send a test mail to 1 Baggins End.
All reimbursements approved contingent on showing of receipts.

Order
Jason:  We can do one
Morgan:  Ill head it up.  Contact me and Ill compile it.  I think we want to create a policy that reflects this ,plus that right before I put the order in Id collect the all the money up front.  Then we can do orders at least once a quarter, which might be contingent on getting nonprofit status.
Jason:  I have a hookup so that we dont even need nonprofit status.
Ian:  Its good to have multiple sources.
Morgan:  I also know the Bike Chef owner.  So Ill send out an email saying all this.  Also let me know if you see anything that the Church needs, let me know.
Ian:  Is there a master list of stuff that continually gets replenished?  Maybe there should be.
Chris:  It might be cool to make a map of where stuff is kept which is.
Ian:  That would start with a database.
Tai:  Well, that would be cool; we first need to keep things in a regular place.

Nonprofit status/PO box
Jason:  We can get an account at First Northern, but we need someone to put up their SSI.
Tai:  Unfortunately, it means someone attaching their tax status to that of the Churchs fortunes.
Chris:  I have my own account at UCSE Credit Union, which we can use now that the Church can get mail.
Jason: Travis said he tried to deposit checks made out to Bike Church and couldnt deposit them.

Nonprofit
Chris:  Kerry Shaw wrote us a set of instructions to getting NPS, choose a name ,articles of inc, federal/state tax filing, etc.
Josh:  I found it very easy to get a small business license.
Chris:  WE are now on the official City of Davis bike map.
Ian:  Is there a spot for Bike Art on that map?
Justin: Im down for the NPS committee.
Ted:  Question would be, how do we want to incorporate?  If we have a board and no insurance, then theres liability.  No board, no liability.  Weve started Davis Bicycles, which if the Church was under its wing then it would streamline insurance ,paperwork , etc., but then theres also the risk of neglecting some units to the benefit of others.
IO:  How feasible is this?
Ted:  Pretty good.  The Vancouver Bike Coop was a shop, advocacy group ,etc. ,which worked great ,but I also worked for a similar org that fucked up its units.
Chris:  The Santa Cruz Church/Hub/PedX is another example of how that can work well.
Ted:  Sounds good, I just want to make sure that we can consider the alternatives of how we incorporate and make sure that no one gets shafted.
IO: Bylaws are also a good way to make sure this all happens well.
Tai and Ted would like to be on the committee.

Minister Workshops
Ted: We could do an 8hour training course to improve our own Ministry.
IO:  We could have an Elvis teach.
Josh:  We could also use a list of human resources in terms of specific skills of each Minister. and availability and orientation; perhaps just a bikecentric bio next to each picture.
IO:  You should get a gold medallion for each class you teach.
Everyone wants to learn, some ready to teach.
After much deliberation...
Saturdays 1012 are good for workshop.  Ted will send out an email request for teachers offering.

Trek Auction
Morgan: Ill handle it.  We should be able to get $150 for it.

New Hours
Chris:  We should make a rule that you only get access to the bulk order if you take at least 2 shifts a month.
Jason:  What if we change the combo every quarter at a meeting.
Eric:  It seems like this wont happen.  Tool theft is minimal and I dont see this happening regularly and would be annoying.
Chris:  I think that its good for it to be annoying so that its a friendly reminder.  The combo should be changed anyway as a security measure.  Just because it didnt happen last time we agreed to, doesnt mean that it wont.
Proposal passes with a single standaside.  Jason will email everyone that theres a new combo, and the wiki will reiterate.  Folks will contact Jason
Chris:  The point of changing the combo is to let everyone know who is part of the combo.
Eric:  At least post two phone numbers on the shed of people who know the combo.
Jason and Chris volunteer.

Ted:  Shall we have someone to rustle up ministers once per month?
Jason:  Yeah, sounds good.  Ill coordinate that.

IO bows out but wants to voice support for trailer development

New Hours
Wednesday and Saturday 48, workshops 24 on Saturday.  Jason will update outreach.

Ted:  Im opening an East Davis branch of Bike Church in my driveway 47 Thursdays 1339 Duke using the MMUs.  Also, Im restarting the BUG; meeting at Fri at 1:30 at the MU taco bar.

Ty is ordained as Deacon Ty.  There is much rejoicing.

April 7, 2007

Present: Chris (facilitating), Justin (notetaking), FixIt, Arlen, Morgan, Nate, Abhi (guest)

Discussions

Security

Abhi:  My bike was stolen from the project area.

Chris:  We decided last meeting to not allow any nonministers here offhours.  Well send out a call for your bike.

FixIt:  I procured a lockbox that we can bolt down to keep our money in.  Also, Ive found the shed unlocked seven times in the last two months.

Chris:  Lets change its combo.

Nonprofit Status

Chris:  Im working on getting 501(3C) status for us soon.

FixIt:  You can use Cindi at Grace House as a resource for this process.

Chris:  We need our Treasurers, Tai and Jason, to do deposits more often though, preferably after every shift.

Tool Theft Prevention

Chris:  We should think about keeping clients IDs while theyre using our services, and certainly being better about maintaining the signin sheet and what tools are used each day.

Shift Concretization

Chris:  We should have all Ministers sign up for specific shifts and commit to them, especially since we just made a major promotion drive.

Nate:  Id be glad to sign up, although I dont have a lot of bike skills.

Permanent Structure

Chris:  Student Housing noticed our “tarpdrying rack” and gave us tacit approval.  Ive been working for the past two years for a joint development (yurt) permit for both the Domes and ourselves.  Theres also a historic house downtown that we could get moved on site.

Miscellaneous

Chris:  Notice that theres a new “sacred calendula patch” by the protected water access valve.  We have to maintain open access to this valve by regulation, so lets all remember this.

?


Present: Jason Moore, Ted Buehler, Siobhan  , Justin Ellerby,  

Agenda just one item: Brainstorm
Project Brainstorm
 Improve entrance
welcome/demarcation sign
solve lack of visibility
? arrows, yellow brick road?
	       exhibit “freak” projects prominently
	       post total grounds layout
	Structure of Church itself
		tin roof?
		Linseed canvas? (super durable)
		chickenwire + stucco + straw?  Needs permit
			permit could be obtained in conjunction with the Domes; contact further
	Pick up pods (bike holders) Nathan, Justin, Jason
	General clean and tidyup of area FixIt
	Donation entryway reorg Siobhan and Matt
	Shed skylight Eric and Chris
	Fully demarcate free vs. claimed parts
	Postering party siobhan
	Outreach print lots of Church stickers for helmets and long, thin ones for frames

2006
 October 14, 2006 

Attendance

Tai, Matt, Siobhan, Eric, Sol, Jason

Discussion


 Financial Status
  The Church has aproximately $1500 in donation money at this time
  The present members decided to reimburse Chris Congleton for $333.33, this will cover some of the startup costs accrued by Chris and once more documentation is received the church will make more payments to Chris
  It was agreed that most of the remaining money (~$1200) should be used for projects, dealer orders, and other church improving intiatives
  $20 was spent from the church money for beer and snacks for the work partiers

 Space
  We decided to leave the new shed where it is and add a wood floor.  Most of the cabinets will be moved in along with the peg board system to give us more room for the tools.  The shed will have the main combo lock in the future and all valuables and items that can be damaged by the winter rains will be moved inside.
  A new workspace will be cleared between the shed and the existing dome.  This will be the main work area and can be covered by tarp.  This will keep the workers from spilling out into the domes commons.
  The dome needs to be winterized (new tarp refit and secured properly).  The entrance to the dome should be turned towards the shed.
  Eric agreed to inquire about new rice bales for the base of the dome
  Discussion of a permanent structure continued.  We still face three issues: funding, legality, and manpower.  A new larger more permanent structure is desired.  Sol mentioned that the domes is in the process of constructing a univeristy approved community structure and that the permanent church structure could be modeled after it.  Sol agreed to find out more info on this structure and whether the church could bulid a similar one.
  The bike pile needs to be thinned and organized once again.  The area needs to be cleaned up.
  We agreed to try to sell the human powered mobile home trailer on craigslist.  It was offloaded at the church and noone really wants it.  Siobhan agreed to take photos and post it on craigslist.
  Sol expressed a concern about the bike church harboring rats.  We need to disturb the bike pile more often and avoid creating rat friendly living spaces.

 Moral
  Less than half of the ministers were present at the meeting.  It was concluded that a general lack of moral was keeping a majority from participating.  We felt that it was difficult to make major decisions with such a small percent present.

 Bikebrary
  Tai has taken the initiative to set up all the workings of the bikebrary.  The only thing remaining is to designate a space for the check out area and lock the trailers and bikes up using the new combo locks.  We decided to use the north side of the church as the bikebrary space.

Work Party Tasks Completed

 A plywood floor was constructed in the shed
 The peg boards and several cabinets were moved into the shed
 Brush and limbs were cleared from the bike church space
 The bike pile was thinned and sorted

 April 1, 2006 

Attendance

Travis, Alec, Ted, Pxl, Luis, Tai, Users/JasonMoore Jason

Discussion


 Founders Vision
  Ted went over the orginal vision of the bike church.  The founders wanted it to be a bike shop that provided a supportive environment where people could work on their bicycles and learn how to do that if they lacked any previous experience.  The members would be able to use the facilities anytime after a they reached a certain level of training.  It would be more than just a tool repository like the Bike Barn, but a place to learn, hang out, and have fun.

 Why use the Church? Why become a member?
  There currently isnt much of an incentive to become a member. The arent enough hours and they are at bad times.  We need to clarify what benefit it is to be a member and make sure that we provide a different service than the Bike Barn, retail shops, and any other places.
  A fleet of utility bikes with trailers that the members had library access to would provide more incentive to join.
  Lowest level member could use the tools when ministers are present and check out the utility bikes.  A higher level member could use the facilities anytime.

 Minister Benefits
  Access to wholesale account.  Parts and tools at cost.
  Full access to the shop

 Minister Requirements
  Volunteer one full day per month.
  Lead three work parties per year.

 Hours
  The current 14 hours during the weekday are at bad times.  Most students have classes.
  It may be better to just have long weekend hours and the ministers trade off weekends.
  The SF Bike Kitchen is open two days a week all day and they charge like $40 a year, and it is guantenteed to be open.
  It is a big commitment for a minister to volunteer the same day every week for an entire quarter.
  We decided on a new hour system.  The church will be open every Friday and Saturday from 12pm to 6pm.
  There will be a  minister sign up sheet posted on the wiki.  Every minister is required to take 1 full shift (126) per month (four weeks).  The church will be guaranteed to be open at these times.  Ministers will have to arrange partial shifts with each other, but must put in 6 hours per month.
  Multiple ministers per shift is highly encouraged.  This provides people to hang out with and learn from when things are slow and will help the work load to be less when multiple people are at the church.  Bring beer, make it a party.

 Facility
  A more organized and professional facility is needed.  It would be much more welcoming to the public and make it easier for everyone to use.
  Tools that are needed to make custom bikes would be ideal.

 Signs
  Signs are good; they make things more official.
  They help make things more organized.

 Who took all the good bikes?
  The bike pile was just a boneyard in the past.  Anyone could come by and take what ever they want.  But we have not made it clear to the public that this is no longer a free pile.  People have been coming by and picking up some of the best bikes and not donating for them.  Locks have even been cut recently.
  It was proposed to make a free pile by the street mainly made up of department store bikes.  Then signs would be placed to deter people from stealing from our pile and direct them to the free pile.

 Donations
  We would like for most of our services to be free or close to free, especially small repairs.  Although we should still ask for and receive donations.
  Patches and lube should always be free
  A donation of at least wholesale price must be received for all of the parts that we have purchased
  We must make it clear to each new customer that we expect a certain donation for parts/bikes.  If they cant pay then they will have to make up for it by volunteering or donating parts/bikes of equal value.  Never turn them away for lack of funds, but be persistent that we will only except the suggested donation amount.

 Advertising
  Tai presented his flyer and mentioned the squeaky bike business card idea
  Pxl is experienced in marketing and is willing to devote some time making flyers, poster, etc
 Field trip
  We need to take a group trip to nearby bike coops such as Santa Cruz Bike Church, San Franciso Bike Kitchen, Pedal Evolution, etc.

 Selling Bikes
  We cant explicitly sell bicycles due to liability reasons and a lack of a business license.
  We can take donations for bicycles and parts.
  It is preferable to have the customer fix at least one thing on the bike they want, even if it is just a flat tire.  In other words, dont repair a bike completely and then put it in the For Donation area, leave something for the customer to do.

 The Order
  There is a bank account under Chris and Traviss name where the donation money is currently held.
  Due to several issues associated with having the bank acount we are going to drain the account and deal only with cash until a better banking situation can be implemented.
  We are not sure whether the 1 Baggins End postal address was ever made legitimate.  We may get a P.O. Box instead if needed.
  Jason is going to work with Santa Cruz and QBP to arrange the order and Tai will handle the finances and allocate the money in the form of a money order for Santa Cruz.
  Travis has handed the treasury position over to Tai, due to the previously mentioned problems with the bank account and postal address.

Work Party Tasks Completed

 Wheels were sorted and hung on the wheel rack
 A free pile was made by the street
 Two new signs were erected to deter people from taking the quality bikes by the church and direct them to the free pile
 Some of the surrounding area was cleaned

 March 5, 2006 

Attendance

Tai, Users/JasonMoore Jason

Work Party Tasks Completed

 Wheel organization rack was constructed
 Transparent roofing was replaced because of major wind damage

 February 18, 2006 

Attendance

Users/JasonMoore Jason, Matt

Work Party Tasks Completed

 One trailer was repaired for bike church and possibly community use.

 February 4, 2006 

Attendance

Tai, Users/JasonMoore Jason

Discussion

 Selling stolen bicycles bikes
  We need to talk to TAPS and find a way to avoid selling stolen bicycles bikes
 Wheel rack
  We designed a wheel rack to get the wheels (and possibly tires) off of the ground and kept in some order.  We are currently checking on material prices and plan to build it in the next few weeks.

Work Party Tasks Completed

 Seat bucket was cleaned out and seats were moved into the white cabinets on the south side of the Bike Church church
 Several containers were cleaned out for use.
 A light duty bicycles bike rack was attached to the wooden cabinet to be used as a third work stand

 January 21, 2006 

Attendance

Tai, Jason, Matt, Travis, Eric, Bryce

Discussion

 Minister Dues
  Everyone present agreed that ministerial Bike Church/Suggested Donations membership dues would be a good thing and would generate a large initial balance to help jump start things.  Bryce started the band wagon by paying his lifetime membership fee.

 Treasury
  Travis has agreed to collect the money weekly and deposit it into the Banks bank account.  He will also send out an email to the ministers declaring the weekly income so everyone will know the state of the Bike Church church.  He will check the amount of money versus the income listed on the clipboard.  Some small bills should be left at the church for change.

 Advertising
  Tai has agreed to make both business cards and flyers.  Each minister will be given some buisness cards that can be handed out to the pedalers of the squeaky bikes.  The flyers will be posted around town and campus.
  A new KDVS advertisment is needed.

 Record Keeping
  There is a login clipboard and a membership log book at the church.  The clipboard is used to track bike church use and transactions.  The treasurer will record the money that has been moved from the church to the bank.  The membership log book is used to keep track of memberships (number and expiration dates).  Keep these in the locked file cabinet.

 Permanent Structure
  Matt shared some of his design ideas for the structure and the associated hurdles that need to be jumped to get things moving.
  The simplicity and cost advantages to an open air, flat roof, shelter were brought up.  Although, the problem of not fitting with the asthetic vibe of the Baggins End area may be a problem.  Matt has seen one that even had walls built from disarded Bicycles bicycle frames to keep out the sinners.

 Bike Church/For Donation Bikes for Sale
  The merits of fixing bicycles and selling them through the Davis Wiki were discussed.  Ministers should try to fix some of the easily raised bikes during slow hours and place them in the For Sale area.  Ministers with access to a digital camera should then post a photo and description on the Davis Wiki.  Pricing should be approximately one fourth of retail price plus ten dollars an hour of labor charge.  We will need a chain and lock for these bicycles because they will be easy to steal.

 Tools
  It would be helpful for everyone if a tool list was available on the wiki or at the church.  This should include existing tools, needed tools, and tools on order.

 Trailers
  Tai proposed to refurbish one or two trailers so they can be used for minister or even public use.

Work Party Tasks Completed

 The roofing for the dome was once again reworked.  We added a better piece of clear plastic on the southern side and secured the tarps with more gromets and Big Grippers.
 A for sale area was cleared on the north side of the church.  A welcome sign and for sale sign were added.
 The church was sweeped and cleaned.
 A few more screws were added to the file cabinet lock.
2005
 October 8, 2005 

Today was a charmed day at the bike church.  From 1 to 4:30 a dozen or so believers hummed around blessing the church with organization and functionality.  Pile bikes were cleared from paths, neatly stacked, and labeled “pick and pull”.  The giant wooden sawhorse was designated as a project bike safe heaven.  Bikes in this area cannot be used for parts.  The tool box was moved inside and secured in an upright position, as originally intended.  It will also have a combination lock.  Many other great improvements were also made.  Check it out.

Vision

Minister Congleton reiterated the churches vision primarily stressing that the bike church is a place where people learn to fix their own bikes, not where the go to have someone fix it for them.

Financial

There will be a cash box to be locked with the tools or a drop box where patrons can leave their donations.  Minister Kurt is responsible for the offerings box. Offerings are by the hour, week, month, lifetime, and for specific parts or bikes.  Check the whiteboard for rates. Minister Travis will open a bank account with USE Credit Union.  He and Minister Congleton will have access to the account.  Their responsibilities will include depositing offerings and making tools/supplies orders.

Membership Cards

Patrons become members when they make the appropriate offering.  Ministers will initial the membership cards with an expiration date.  Apprentice Takemura will design and produce membership cards in the near future.

Apprenticeships

Ministers to be will spend a transitory period as an apprentice.  This period includes five shifts with a Minister.

Security

The tool box is now lockable.  Ministers will be informed of the combination after they write a two page essay about their faith in the Bike Church.  Just kidding, wait for an email. Minister Kurt will manifest a chain with a “Sorry, we’re closed.  Come back soon!” sign that will be strung across the threshold of the Church when service is not being held. Minster Seitzler will be investigating another lock box for cables and other equipment.

Self Service Station

Minister Congleton and Apprentice Jason will be manifesting a self service station near the street.  The station will include a non mud ground surface, pump, and basic tools to be chained to the spot.

Schedule

The Church schedule is 1 to 4 every day of the week except Saturday.  Ministers will rotate Sunday shifts and hold a weekly shift.  More than one minister per shift is a good idea.

Opening and Closing Procedures

Upon opening the Church, Ministers should sign in and clear their mind.  Obviously, all tools must be returned to the tool box and locked up with the money box when closing.  Please leave the Church cleaner than it was before you came.

Hallelujah and praise the spoked wheel.
